---
layout: post
title:  "Ego in the Election"
date: 2016-11-10 14:02:36 -0400
categories: politics
---

In January, Donald Trump will walk into the oval office and like Frank Underwood give a maniacal look into an imaginary camera, saying 'we did it' to the council of demons that manage his brain. At that moment, a man who objects to the principle of updating belief in response to information will control the most powerful country and military on Earth. Likely, there are enough checks on power to prevent global catastrophe, but there will be damage to marginalized groups, the economy, science, technology and the planet.

Yesterday, Trump chose a climate skeptic to manage the transition of the EPA. I'm a white educated male and in general not a victim of Trump's hatred. However, such decisions affect my life personally. The next decades will usher in a series of technologies of revolutionary potency (e.g. genetic engineering, brain alteration using stimulation, and artificial intelligence), and each of these technologies will bring dangers that rival its benefits. For the last eight years, I have worked with these technologies funded in part by military grants. Under Obama, I was comfortable with this arrangement, but the new scenario makes me queasy. It is essential for the survival of mankind that these technologies are built in a safe atmosphere of responsible unsuperstitious thinkers who make decisions in the interest of the collective benefit of humanity. Trump's choice here suggests that he will select a cabinet of thinkers who lack a respect for science, humanity, and the planet, instead prioritizing the economic interests of corporations.

Moving forward, there are only two possibilities: fragmentation or reconciliation. Fragmentation sounds like an attractive option given how wretched and overt the Republican party has become in its exploitation of democracy. Donald Trump preyed on voters who are deeply superstitious, who prefer the Bible to Science and lottery tickets to the math needed to prove how this is a statistically imprudent long term strategy. Scientific reasoning does not persuade this demographic since it undermines their identities, but it is a point we will not budge on because it is the basis for most productive conversation among Democrats. At this point, I probably would not object if there were a peaceful path towards splitting into two nations. I feel no loyalty to the voters who elected Trump as president. They can regress into a racist kingdom under the rule of reality TV celebrities, and we’ll build a technology utopia with universal income. But of course reconciliation is the better option. If this is to be possible, then Democrats must make the same cognitive leap that we require of Trump supporters. We are asking Trump supporters to adopt cognitions that undermine their identity. We must notice that we, like Trump's supporters, have selected a body of ideas that also confirm our identities, and we must acknowledge to them the way in which our own thinking hinges on our egos. 

This insight is crucial for progress because in order to persuade another individual that they are irrational and egotistic you must first admit that you are irrational and egotistic. I have not met an individual who was not psychologically flawed. We are all flawed because individual differences in the brain often captures tradeoff between two productive styles of thinking and behaving. If you are at the center of every tradeoff, then your flaw is that you are a vanilla human being. I am a PhD student in Computer Science and when I play back audio of myself speaking I detect a bit of an arrogant intonation. To others, I get binned in a smart and perhaps somtimes intellectually intimidating category. The wise thing for me to do therefore is to emphasize that the origin of my intellectualism is in fact social alienation: that I was unpopular growing up and socially insecure. Good academic performance was necessary for my ego to flourish in the absence of a healthy social life. I have tested such vulnerability with strangers mostly in saunas with success (but my sample is biased given that I talk mainly to students of a college campus in Boston).

As an unintended and highly desirable side effect, honesty and vulnerability appears to trigger high quality attention flow states, since by vulnerably exposing flaws, you don't need to perform the cerebrally expensive switching between endogenous and exogenous networks in the brain necessary to hide your flaws from yourself and the world. Trump is a liar and certainly not vulnerable. However, he was more loose and fluent than Hillary Clinton and I think this made Donald Trump win the election. Hillary Clinton concealed her thoughts, and the effect implied a failure to sustain sincere external states.

The system of the brain that controls ego, mind wandering and other spontaneous thoughts that compete with computations of external experience is referred to in Systems Neuroscience as the Default Mode Network (read [this article][carhart] for a relation between the Freudian concept of the ego and the default mode network). Activation in the default mode network pulls energy from anti-correlated exogenous task-positive networks, responsible for computing swift input-output loops with the world. I'm guessing Hillary Clinton's default mode network was not altogether her companion, often generating thoughts which (although useful for a president) do not align with what she thinks she needs to say in order to campaign effectively. Instead, she must suppress these thoughts and the act of suppression prevents her from obtaining the same high quality attentive states as Donald Trump - and make her seem like a bad actor on stage. 

It is unclear whether Donald Trump is in fact a [wizard][wizard] - what Scott Adams calls those who manipulate themselves and others using neurolinguistic hacks. Alternatively, he may be an incredibly shallow individual who does not suffer the deep abstractions in the default mode network which subtracted Hillary Clinton from external experience. This is an open and critical question to the future of the country - because we still don’t know the extent to which Donald Trump’s campaign character was natural. The question might be settled if Donald Trump honestly filled out a Myers Briggs Test. If he is a sensing (S) type, then the running monologue of his brain probably has to do more with noticing that he enjoys sensations of power and that certain habits of behavior lead in that direction. If he's an intuitive (N) type, then his quest for the white house was planned using abstract frameworks about how his and other people's attentional systems work, and what he has done is all the more evil, as he would be a first order intuitive sociopath villain who knows what he wants (sex and power) as well as how to get it.


[wizard]:[http://blog.dilbert.com/post/126916006856/wizard-wars]
[carhart]:[http://brain.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2010/02/28/brain.awq010.short]


