
I am to blame for the outcome of the United States election. I watched passively as the Democrat I support demolished itself in social media.  Instead of do anything address the problem, I mostly just observed as my newsfeeds became cluttered with hard issues which I knew had tradeoffs and were not telling a complete story. I upvoted these links and sentiments because my friends cared a lot about them and I like my friends. But in the back of my mind, the political correctness exhibited in social media was frustrating me. Rather than speak up which would have cost me social currency, I remained passive. Now, Trump is the president of the United States. And I represent the category of individual that is to blame. I could see how reasonably eyes could interpret certain movements as not being entirely honest, and yet I remained passive.

 The left has itself to blame with its own political correctness. The left is the better ideology on economic and moral grounds. If I controlled the levers on this system, I would tilt policy probably towards the left. I would focus on quantitively describing the ethical relevance of every fetus, amoeba, plant, animal, and human being on a consciousness scale. Then I would implement the policies which maximized the quality of consciousness for everybody in the short term and long term. For the time being, this would likely include unequal pay distributions, simply to manage the fact that certain professions are less desirable and harder, and therefore require monetary. However, I think the need for incentives is diminishing given the fact that automation will sweep undesirable routine jobs, and it is more important to find a way to take the wealth of resources available on this planet and distribute it equally among all citizens. Nevertheless, I would attempt to dismantle Wall Street because it doesn't really seem to be doing anything, and attracts very smart individuals from professions that are doing something. Of course, if I were running president, I wouldn't say this. 

 But because of Facebook and the general fact that individuals select and promote news based on how it makes them feel, the proper thinkers are criticized and labeled as bigots, and reasonable thinkers (my favorite is Sam Harris) are called bigots. The worst example is a college campus, which viewed in a larger spectrum is a mostly group of allies minus certain old men professors and despicable fraternity cultures. But the Facebook winners of the left have pushed matters so hard that their own allies must censor themselves. To be clear, I don't think any individual action like wanting to rename the building of a former slave owner at Yale is a necessarily bad proposition. In that case, I side with those who value the feelings of marginalized groups. Why does a young black Freshman need to walk into a  building that celebrates slave owners? At the back of the freshman's mind is the uncertain question: are these fuckers still racist? It eats him up, and the name Calhoun is a datapoint that suggests society remains racist. Our priority should be to make that freshman feel comfortable at Yale and we must change the name of the damn of the building. Sure, many were slave owners back then and ethics change over time. If we continue to improve morally, we will one day be outraged that we ate cows. Analogously, if a cow were to go to college, then we ought to change the name of any builiding that celebrated the legacy of McDonald's.

But the problem isn't with the incident. It's with the fact that I know the story. The human experience is stupendously interesting right now because it is at a tipping point where it's beginning to recognize and tinker with the fact that it's a physical symbol system and information processor, and yet I know of this incident about the name of a building at a school I don't attend? Let Yale handle it. The left has created an online culture that promotes primarily ideas which describes some story of outrage on issues of sex, race, and immigration. The winners of this system are those who can describe outrage with the most poignant language to the largest body of followers, and can identify new instances of outrage. And I think this is a healthy practice were it not for the fact that the Republicans control the Supreme Court, the House, the Senate, and have placed an egomaniac socipath celebrity culture liar buffoon at the helms of our country. The bread winners of Democrat social media made the opposition think that we had forfeited our grip on reality: that we didn't have the stomach or intellect to navigate the harder truths that are sure to offend people. And that we would be putting our country in jeopardy by electing a leader who was so afraid of causing outrage among her supporters that she couldn't name the role of religion in terrorism. 

The democrat party I support combines three propositions:

1. Our primary duty as Americans is to maximize the quality of experience for as many Americans as possible. Once we have without extravagance met our own demands for life quality, our secondary duty is to help maximize the quality of experience for as many humans as possible. 
2. We listen to what people report about their own experience in order to decide what suits them
3. We use data and logic to decide policies that partition scarce resources in order to obtain 1. and 2. 

The best candidate from our side is the one who recognizes point 1 as had enough conversations . Hillary Clinton may have been that candidate but she wasn't able to speak honestly enough to convince the Republican supporters that these were the fundamentals behind her thought process. I think a practical next step for a given individual is to curate their social media news feeds. Unsubscribe 

 I'm new to the game of expressing political opinions so I don't really know who to recommend as news curator other than Sam Harris. The previous atmosphere was not good for me because I didn't feel outrage. In that atmosphere, you needed to be politically correct to spread news. But I expect a new moderate Democrat atmosphere to emerge since it will notice that it dug its own grave. 

 I'm hoping that truth and reasoning from primitives works because I'm staking my career on it. I'm in my fourth year of a PhD, and at the point where I need to make a decision about whether or not to become a college professor. It would be a hard step to become a professor but I think I would do it if I believed that it was the best platform for me to spread good ideas. But I want to be more loose with knowledge than what is required for the job . I want to use other human beings as a feedback loop on which I can test more adventurous ideas without risking that I lose my job. Because what I think but people don't say often is so because have refrained from saying for fear of criticism, the ideas I have that I want to test on the world would be more likely to offend people. In the current atmosphere, professors must run parallel self censorship scripts to make sure they don't offend anyone. 

 The group of individuals promoting such censorship are hurt most by 11/9. These are fundamentally good individuals many of whom I love. They have perspectives that I can't fully tap into being a white male. And they are motivated primarily out of concern for protecting people they love and who are underprivelged and marginalized in society. This goodness makes it extremely hard even for me to criticize them. But unless they recognize how their impracticality and inability deal with features of humans that will not go away unless we re-write brains, preference for feeling over truth is responsible for what has happened in the election, tyranny will win over this country, and could lead to the destruction of civilization.

 From the point of view of certain Trump supporters, they had a choice between a maniac and a person who selectively ignores truths to win over a system of weak thinkers who treat public conversation as a family dinner. And it drives me insane - given that they are responsible and to blame for the fact Donald Trump is the president of the United States of America. 

 It is paramount that as political party, democrats embrace truth over feeling. Policy design is simple: maximize consciousness for as many people. Listen to what they have to say about what maximizes their consciousness, since people are different. So long as such maximization does not infringe on other individuals and isn't too expensive given the size of the group being served, implement that policy. 
