The matter of sex, gender, race, evolution, and immigration started to interest me after the election because these issues seem to be at the core of what separates the educated from the uneducated. 

We become decreasingly similar to one another as we age. 

Most educated brains have goal

 as I decided to sincerely consider the possibility that the Trump supporters had made the right call on selecting the presidency. Obviously, my sober mind had a , but I wanted to be more specific about what was going on 

But my general orientation in life is that everybody is right about everything simultaneously. And to not attempt to see the world  


As with most matters, the disagreement would be resolved by a more precise vocabulary describing the state of the brains as information processors and 

Men generally would be unable to simulate how much it pissess off explicit brain to . If women described these emotions more vulnerably, then men would more inclined . If men described these feelings more vulnerably, then women . All information would be on the table, and instead of shouting matches, in which, and a skirting around the basic issue

Any brain is composed of many different systems 

How deep into abstraction paradise do I want to go? I've 


Many men who grew up in Western societies want to be feminists with a part of their brain and not a feminist with another part of the brain. I love pornography, and in particular rough pornography that would undermine a woman's identity since she is made to assume a subservient role. I enjoy watching a woman being deep throated for instance - a situation in which the man holds a woman's head and fucks her mouth as though it is a vagina. The power dynamic that has unfolded lights up my brain and I enjoy this sensation. 

Because I am a feminist who may one day have a daughter, this fact of my brain troubles me somewhat. Indeed, were it not for the fact that I am confident that every male brain shares the property that it enjoy witnessing a woman's mouth be temporarly granted the affordances of a vagina, I would be reluctant to share this feature of my brain for fear of what others might say about my sexuality. 

When I'm about to expose a datapoint about myself publically to the world, I think how that information could be used against me. And this can be used against me? I'm publically admitting that I enjoy watching sort of rape-y pornography.

What bothers me about this is that I feel like I want to be an advocate or a single instance representing the following: men are OK, women; you are safe. But the fact is that I think other men suck, mostly, and most men I know are flawed on some level, morally imperfect 


, I consult my thinking tools I think people fall in two basic categories 

The fact of the matter is that few . I'm just a , and my . It just doesn't. And you can adopt a system's level thinking of your action, which society 

 
But I'm beginning to suspect that most women kind of like it too.





For men who like to think, writing about women is among the harder topics. That is why there is little writing on the subject that is both thoughtful and honest. But the topic is so interesting, and I'm drawn to the few writers who want to take a stab at the subject: to honestly discuss. 

Most honest writing on women and love is wrapped fiction. And perhaps that is where it belongs because

 If one wants to honestly discuss , it is better to wrap the topic into an implicit form of communication. 
First, there are two types of writing that is absolutely abundant because there is relatively little at stake for the person expressing the opinion. If you write about how much you love a particular person, then that's amazing but also easy to do. Similarly, if you write .

Where does one start? The only things one can say publicly on gender without facing criticism is that it's a cultural construct.



Only one hundred years ago women were housewives. 